# C# Basics for Beginners: Learn C# Fundamentals by Coding

本文是Udemy上的课程《C# Basics for Beginners: Learn C# Fundamentals by Coding》的学习笔记。

课程链接：[C# Basics for Beginners: Learn C# Fundamentals by Coding](https://www.udemy.com/csharp-tutorial-for-beginners/learn/v4/content)

---

## Section 2 - Introduction to C# and .NET Framework

### C# vs .NET

C# is a programming language, while .NET is a framework that builds applications on Windows.

There are different languages that can target at .NET Framework such as F# or VB.NET.

### .NET

.NET consists of two parts:

- CLR (Common Language Runtime)
- Class Library

### CLR

1. .NET translate C# code into intermediate language code, this idea borrowed from Java. The IL code is independent of the computer which it is running.
1. Then CLR translate IL code into native/machine code, this process is called JIT (Just-In-Time) compilation.
1. So, we just write code, and CLR will do all the following job to make the program run on different systems.

### Architecture of .NET Applications

- Application consists of classes.
- Namespace is a container for related classes. For example, the namespace `System` in .NET Framework consists of classes such as `Array`, `Console`, and so on.
- Assembly (DLL or EXE) is a container for related namespaces. For example, in `c:\WINDOWS\assembly\GAC_MSIL\`, there are hundreds of DLLs, such as `System.Core`, `System.Drawing`, `System.Net`, and so on.
- And application is a container for one or many assemblies. When compiling application, the compiler builds one or more assemblies depending on how the code is partitioned.

## Section 3 - Primitive Types and Expressions

### Naming Conventions

- local variables: Camel Case -- `int firstNumber;`
- constants: Pascal Case -- `const int MaxSize = 5;`

### Real Numbers

The default type is double, so if you declare `float time = 1.2;`, the code will not compile. You should declare `float time = 1.2f;` instead.

The same to decimal: `decimal money = 1.2m;`

### Ranges

| C# Types | .NET Types | Bytes | Range |
| -- | -- | -- | -- |
| byte | Byte | 1 | 0 to 255|
|short | Int16 | 2 | -32,768 to 32767 |
| int | Int32 | 4 | -2.1B to 2.1B |
| lomg | Int64 | 8 | ... |
| float | Single | 4 | -3.4E38 to 3.4E38 |
| double | Double | 8 | ... |
| decimal | Decimal | 16 | -7.9E28 to 7.9E28 |
| char | Char | 2 | Unicode characters |
| bool | Boolean | 1 | True/False |

### Overflowing

```c#
byte number = 255;
number = number + 1; // 0
```

How to check?

```c#
checked
{
  byte number = 255;
  number = number + 1;
}
```

### Tricks

1. Enter `cw` and press `Tab`, Visual Studio will autocomplete and display `Console.WriteLine();`.
1. Press `Ctrl+X` at a line, and this line will be deleted.

### Type Conversion

Convert byte(small) to int(large) will always be OK, because there is no data loss. And it's called `implicit type conversion`.

But convert int to byte is disabled by default, if must, do like `byte b = (byte) i`, which is `casting` or `explicit type conversion`.

When convert string with numbers to byte using `Convert` method and overflowing happenes, system will throw out an exception.

### Logical Operations

When there are two negatives in the code, **DO** inverse them to one positive.

```C#
// Bad
!(a != b)
// Good
a == b
```

### Comments

Use comments only to explain whys, hows, constrains, etc. Not the whats.

## Section 4 - Non-Primitive Types

Non-primitive types like class need to explicit allocate memory as follows.

```c#
Person person = new Person();
```

### Static Modifier

When we only want one instance of a property or method, we use `static` modifier as follows.

```c#
Class Calculator {
  public static int Add() {...}
}

int sum = Calculator.Add(1, 2);
```
